South Vietnam can shove the United States around
for 10 years?
They don't have a military that amounts to a hill of
beans. North Vietnam doesn't either. Who fed
North Vietnam on these people? China? But we
wouldn't dare go to North Vietnam or beyond a
certain level here. We wouldn't bring China into
it. We would not bring China into it. China was in
it.
The reason people protested is because they were
frustrated
and angry and not just a little put out that they
lost their sons or whatever. I believe that a lot of
those people who protested why I hated it at the
time and why that kind of thing grates on any
military man.
I understand at least why they did it. And I suppose
there were probably a lot of military people the
last two or three years of that war wanted to march
because of the stupidity. the way we approached
it, because of the cost that we laid down for it. And
we still ended up with a fistful of nothing. And all
we got out of Vietnam was a bunch of dead soldiers
and a black wall.
And that's a price that stinks.
You were talking about the military. The command
was thinking of, what do you think of the fact that
when they were first going in, that initially the
CIA and the military were completely opposed to
it. They said there was no way to either win or there
was no strategic objectives in that particular
theater. It wasn't that important. It wasn't
worth the effort. It was about 63, 64 when they were
talking about it. Then at 65, when the Marines
landed with 50,000 men, they were told at that
time, you know, they weren't told. What they said
was, I'm not too certain exactly what our
objective is. But what they thought was, we'll go
in there with 50,000 and scare the snot out of these
people. We're going to get a lot of this nonsense
stopped just by our sheer numbers. the military
mindset of an Oriental, they don't care if they
fight 5,000 or five.
They are a unique critter. And that's the hardest
thing for Americans to go against. That's the
reason we had so much trouble in the Second World
War with Japs. We couldn't imagine the things that
they would live through.
We could not fathom the things those people would,
you know, the lengths they would go to. They would
live worse than animals.
And they would fight and die for old mother
country. See, that's a mindset completely
different than America. We don't want to die for
old mother country. We want to live for it. Matter
of fact, Patton even said it. He said, Patton,
you're not a hero because you go out there and die
for your country. You make that other son of a bitch
die for his country. That was Patton's words. You
want to go out there and make him die for his
country, make a hero out of him. We just, boy, we
have the hardest time with an oriental mind And we
assume certain things about them. It's not true.
We create a lot of problems for ourselves.
I don't know how many people, if you saw ten
Orientals walking down the street, your natural
conditioning after what you've seen in the movies
and all is that at least nine of them know karate.
When all they are really maybe is Nikon salesmen.
But we assume certain things, and we act a certain
way because of that assumption. Same things
happen in the Japanese, and same things happen in
Vietnam, Korea.
We think we're going to do a certain thing, and we
don't do it. And the worst part of that is the
politicians are doing a lot of the assuming.
We have people... in very strong, powerful
positions that don't have the foggiest notion of
the people they're dealing with. And yet, they're
gonna carry out policies that they don't even
understand. So, it was bad intelligence or just
not listening to the intelligence? I think it was a
lack of intelligence. lack of intelligence
people than a lot of our politicians that are
elected people. For instance, we elect somebody
from Texas to go represent us in Washington. Now
the person that we know of here in Texas that we
elect, do you elect that man based on his military
background? Do you elect him on the basis of how
successful he is in business? Do you elect him on
the basis of how charismatic he is? Do we elect him?
We just go through his college background, his
educational background. Do we do it on that?
Almost every one of those with the exception of the
military bid. We don't care about that. We're
going to do it more on his charismatic comportment
and his ability to function as a businessman. more
rapidly than any other thing. Isn't that about
right? Now we're going to send him to Washington
and he's going to sit up there and deal in all these
things around the world. We had a political pot
full of them up there in Washington all during
those ten years of Vietnam.
How many of those people had one iota of military
background. Now, this is what I'm talking about,
the lack of intelligence. If I said to you, Benny,
I've got a little project I need blown up.
Now, if your expertise doesn't happen to be in
explosives, I'm just going to hand you the caps and
the charges and I'm going to tell you where I want
it, I want this thing blown out of there, and you go
out there and take care of it. Would you go do that?
I'm sure I'd think about it, yeah. You'd think
about it, because I told you and I was your
superior, and you'd think about going and doing
it. But you'd also have enough common sense to say,
wait a minute, tell me something about this. What
makes this go off? If you didn't know, you'd be
pretty stupid not to ask. But what if you went next
door and asked my neighbor?
And he happened to know all about electronics and
absolutely nothing about explosives. But he told
you what he thought. And based on what he told you to
do and the fact that I gave you the direction, you
went out there to do it. And you not only blew that
thing out of there, but yourself and a bunch of
neighbors with it. Now, I'm the one who gave the
direction. Do they come to me and say, why did you
tell that boy and not know that he'd know how to do
it? Well, it's not my fault. That guy told him how to
do it. Now, he goes to jail, and I'm still sitting in
my office. That's what happens in Washington
quite often.
We have people who will ask other people who have
about the same amount of experience maybe in a
given area that they do. How many politicians do
you suppose were in politics to escape going to
Vietnam?
I just, I guess my frustration is that I know
of so many of the different senators
that would stand up and say things about the war
that they had no experience to understand what was
going on. Yet Senator Iannui, who knew what it was
to fight a war and lost an arm and so on, he would say
certain things And they'd ignore him. And I'm not
just saying him, but many like him. It's the guys
who have the voice of experience in that given area
that were saying things that they should have
listened to. Whether we agree with what they were
saying or not. We ought to know where they're
coming from to say such a thing. But see, if I say
something that you disagree with, If you don't
talk to me about it and find out why I say that,
you're not going to understand. You'll just sit
there and disagree.
And we'll never reach that point where we have this
understanding. And if we don't understand,
there's not much grounds for appreciation
either. Respect.
And I have very little respect for some of
them. Because there were a number that backed Jane
Fonda doing what she did.
That's a dangerous game.
I knew it. He said some things that I disagree with.
But at least I understand part of what he's saying.
And in order for me to understand all of what he's
saying, I'd have to sit down and talk
to him. But quite often, when a direction's given,
the guy who gives the direction doesn't give the
instruction. And he insulates himself with
neighbors and other people, other than soldiers,
to take the heat when things blow up in his face. And
they're the connivers that are just frosted.
And how much of that was responsible for all that
went on in Vietnam, God only knows. But entirely
too much. You've always got people who are
concerned about being re-elected. And they'll do
and say anything to be re-elected. And they're the
ones I have no respect
for. Regardless of why Lyndon Johnson, whatever
motivated him, There's a raft of reasons, but part
of the reason, Lyndon Johnson didn't run again.
Because of Vietnam.
So, I take my hat off to a man that at least says, I
cannot stomach this any longer.
And walked
away. Then those that'll sit there and run and lie
and do whatever...
the common soldier. It was like when you were
there. You did what you were told to do.
But the reason the common soldier, even in Nazi
Germany, the reason the common soldier continued
to fight and die is because he had a certain faith in
the command. That faith in our command started to
deteriorate in the mid to late 60s. And by 70, And
on. It was shot. Nobody trusted him. How would you
like to have been there then? Not after Tet. After,
well, during Vietnamization, I wouldn't have
wanted to have been there.
Because then everybody, they were pulling troops
out. They're still fighting, and then you're just
going to die for absolutely nothing. You've got
people, the next unit's being pulled back to the
States, and you're still there having a fight. And
you're dying. See, you're almost in a position
where it's a dying situation. At least if you think
you're dying for something. During the Second
World War, our guys were dying, but they knew what
they were dying for. And that was the frustrating
factor of Vietnam. We were, you know, they were
never told. I mean, our own government never said
we had a specific direction. What are we trying to
do? So the guys get the feeling that they're
literally in a dying situation and have no
knowledge why their life is required. You feel
like the government leadership in general just
betrayed the soldiers?
knowingly betrayed their trust yeah i do because i
think too many people got involved in a situation
where it was face saving time and they would rather
save face than admit their error and cancel it save
at least some lives
because you know ultimately that's exactly what
happened everybody kept rattling and shaking
until it finally got to the point it was obvious
that we didn't have the facility for continuing
it, much less the heart for it, and we were beat. So
we withdrew, and we left those people, and part of
them were clamoring for that freedom, and they got
it. Now, the thing that happened was the exact
thing that people like Jane Fonda clamored for.
Get out and let them run their own business. That's
their business. Let them do it. That's what they
want to do. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So we did. And
millions died. Millions died. That country was
raped.
And Cambodia, which we were forbidden to go across
these sacred borders, they were raped. They got
what they asked for.
But we picked up part of the ticket. And our psyche
continues to pay for it as a country. People scream
about, we shouldn't do this, we shouldn't do that.
What are they attached to it every time? Like
Vietnam. Now you tell me. We're not navel-gazing.
We don't look at the world anymore with a view
towards accomplishing anything. What we look at
it, it seems to me now, is with an eye that we never
want to be put in that position again. So you feel
the Vietnam syndrome is affecting foreign
policy? Oh, absolutely. Just like Watergate
Center. That thing continues to affect
everything. I mean, everything we do now has got to
have this grand investigation attached to it.
Everything.
Oh, man. Of course, we're all... I think you
unplugged the lamp. Unplug that other thing. No.
Pause.
Well, you
know... I think we have a lot of good people in
politics.
we get into a fighting situation. I would
certainly like to know that whoever, I'd like to
know whoever's doing the directing has something
specific in mind. And I'll give you a case in point
of the futility of the Bay of Pigs. That thing was
ramshackle from the beginning to its disastrous
end. And Vietnam is a reflection of that same
thing.
And we went through three presidents during that
fiasco.
And not one of them seemed to have any better grasp
than the other. It was like a booger on the finger.
You just sit there and keep flicking it, and that
sucker won't come off. And not one of them said,
come here, General, and wipe it on his chest along
with all of his other confetti. You know, they
didn't do that. Now I want somebody, a president or
whoever it is, to have the coyotes to stand up and
say, this stinks, get out.
We just keep dancing. Everybody wants to be
re-elected. That's what stinks about politics.
Your life is insignificant in light of my
importance in Washington. Bullshit.
The day will come when you'll have your sons.
How are you going to feel when they're called to go
down to
the canal to fight? Because just as sure as God made
politics and countries, there's going to be a
conflict down there.
I'd certainly like to know that the one that's in
charge has the brass of Harry Truman to stand up and
say, we're going to do it, and we're going to do it to
end
it. The way the world is today, the thing that they
could do to affect it more than anything else and
understand who Jesus Christ is. Stop thinking
about fighting. Start thinking about living. The
lethal potential is phenomenal. It's just
phenomenal. We just keep flirting with it.
be nice. My kids' kids
could grow up and accomplish all God has intended.
That you and your children could grow up being able
to travel
anywhere in the world and know that God's in charge
of you instead of someone else.
It's probably going to do it.